[docs] - Split up Cloud alert docs (DOC-177) (#20541)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/dagster-cloud/managing-deployments/alerts.mdx

---

## How it works

Alerts are created using **alert policies**. An alert policy defines [the conditions that will trigger an alert](#alert-policy-types) and [how the alert will be sent](#supported-notification-services). For example, you can create a policy that sends an alert to a Slack channel when any asset in a specific asset group fails to materialize.

Alert policies are configured on a **per-deployment basis**. This means, for example, that asset alerts configured in a `prod` deployment are only applicable to assets in that deployment.

### Alert policy types

<table
  className="table"
  style={{
    width: "100%",
  }}
>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th
        style={{
          width: "25%",
        }}
      >
        Policy type
      </th>
      <th>How it works</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <strong>Asset alert</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        Triggers on:
        <ul>
          <li>

>             <strong>Asset materialization</strong> - Failure or success
>           </li>
>           <li>
>             <strong>Asset check</strong> - Error, warn, passed, or failure to

Reviewer: nit, I think these should be plural
```suggestion
            <strong>Asset materializations</strong> - Failure or success
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong>Asset checks</strong> - Error, warn, passed, or failure to
```

            execute
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong>Asset freshness</strong> - Overdue
          </li>
        </ul>

>         An asset group or asset key can be provided, which limits notifications
>         to fire only if the asset group or asset key matches the materialized
>         asset. In the case of checks, notifications will only be sent if the
>         asset group/key to which the check is attached matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Alerts can be scoped to asset groups or specific asset keys. Asset check alerts will be sent for any checks on those assets.
```

        <br />
        <br />

>         <strong>Note:</strong> Asset based alert policies are still experimental

Reviewer: we can remove this https://dagsterlabs.slack.com/archives/C06FFA6CQ5N/p1710805946587069

   **Note**: If creating an asset alert, an additional **Email asset owners (experimental)** option will be available.

8. When finished, click **Save policy**.

### Editing alert policies

To edit an existing alert policy, click the **Edit** button next to the policy.

### Enabling and disabling alert policies

To enable or disable an alert, use the toggle on the left side of the alert policy.

### Deleting alert policies

To delete an alert policy, click the **Delete** button next to the policy. When prompted, confirm the deletion.

---

## Managing alert policies with the dagster-cloud CLI

When creating an alert policy using the CLI, only certain `event_types` can be specified together. You can specify multiple job run-based event types together (`JOB_SUCCESS`, `JOB_FAILURE`), or a tick-based event type (`TICK_FAILURE`), but attempting to mix these will result in an error.

With the [`dagster-cloud` CLI](/dagster-cloud/managing-deployments/dagster-cloud-cli), you can:

> - [Set a full deployment's policies](#setting-a-full-deployments-policies)

Reviewer: nit: this feels a little silly, it could just say read and write alert policies without the links to the two small sections.

- [View a full deployment's policies](#viewing-a-full-deployments-policies)

> ### Setting a full deployment's policies

Reviewer: instead of saying `full deployment` here, we should have a callout that alerting as a whole is only supported on full deployments, not branch deployments

Author: I wound up splitting the CLI stuff out into its own guide - I think it makes it easier to find/digest. Added this info to the intro of that guide.

A list of alert policies can be defined in a single YAML file. After declaring your policies, set them for the deployment using the following command:

> ```bash

Reviewer: this syntax highlighting is weird, would better without it imo
